termcolors: Python module illustrating RGB queries on xterm-like
terminals

Author: Darsh Ranjan
Email: Take darsh.ranjan and follow it with "at here dot com".

========================================================================
Overview of functionality

This Python module allows you to programmatically determine the RGB
values of some terminals' ANSI colors (or more colors, if the terminal
has them).  The functions must be run from the terminal whose colors you
want to determine, and with caveats if within a screen or tmux session
(see below for more on this).  Not all terminal types are supported.

This module is intended to work on both Python 2.7 and Python 3.x.

Fully supported terminals:

    xterm
    urxvt

For these terminals, all of the query functions work, including
foreground/background colors.

Mostly supported terminals: pretty much all VTE-based terminals. This
includes:

    vte
    Terminal (XFCE)
    gnome-terminal
    terminator
    tilda

and many more.  These are on "mostly" status because I don't know how to
query their foreground and background colors.  Everything else works,
though, albeit with noticeable slowness, which may be beyond this
module's control.

Unsupported terminals: most other terminals I've tried.  These include:

    ajaxterm
    Linux virtual console
    terminology (Enlightenment)
    konsole (KDE)
    Eterm (Enlightenment)
    (etc.)

These terminals do not seem to allow their colors to be queried
dynamically.  There may be other ways to obtain RGB values for some of
these terminals, such as parsing configuration files or perhaps parsing
the outpuf of xrdb --query.  I have no plans to implement any of these.

Note regarding screen and tmux: it generally doesn't make sense to query
a terminal from inside a screen or tmux session, since a single screen
or tmux session can be attached to multiple terminals.  However, in the
special case of being attached to a single terminal, it is possible
because tmux and screen provide (different) methods to pass control
sequences through to the attached terminal.  Of course, it makes no
sense to try this if there are multiple terminals attached, and you
should expect crazy results if you do.  Thus, forwarding queries through
screen or tmux is currently an opt-in feature (see the "screen_forward"
optional argument in TerminalQueryContext.__init__ or the
--screen-forward/--tmux-forward options in termcolors-demo.py).  This
will fail inside a nested screen or tmux session.

========================================================================
Overview of code

colors.py: defines the RGBAColor class, which is currently a simple
collections.namedtuple.

terminal_query.py: defines TerminalQueryContext, the main class for
handling queries to a terminal.  Various terminal properties can be
queried (depending on the terminal), but only queries for RGB values are
supported at the moment, since those are the main focus of this project.

color_display.py: defines ColorDisplay, a subclass of
TerminalQueryContext showing RGB queries put to use in creating color
tables.

termcolors-demo.py: driver script showing most of the functionality in
action.
